# Drowsiness-Detection

With rapid development and evolution in technology, science has come a long way in the past 50 years. The automobile industry has shown immense growth, starting from a bicycle to now automated vehicles. But with that, the risk of accidents has also increased. In India, the number of car accidents reported in 2021 was 4,12,432 which claimed 1,53,972 lives and caused injuries to 3,84,448 people. According to some reports, 40% of these accidents were caused by drowsiness or fatigue in drivers. Researchers have been trying to find a solution for alerting the driver for the past many years. The advent of machine learning has enabled the development of various intelligent systems that can perform complex tasks with high accuracy. One area that has been extensively explored is transportation safety. Machine learning (ML) has been used to develop systems that can detect and prevent accidents caused by human errors, such as driver drowsiness. In recent research progress ML was used for detecting fatigue in drivers, Random Forests, Decision Trees, Regressors, and KNN. While these algorithms have shown promising results individually, they may not always perform well in real-world scenarios due to variations in the data. To address this issue, ensemble learning, which involves combining the output of multiple machine learning algorithms, has gained popularity. Ensemble learning has improved the accuracy and robustness of machine learning models, making them more reliable in real-world applications. Ensemble methods can be broadly classified into two categories: aggregation-based methods and meta-learning-based methods. Aggregation-based methods, such as Majority Voting and Bagging, combine the output of multiple machine-learning algorithms by averaging or voting. Metalearning-based methods, such as Stacking and Boosting, train a meta-learner that combines the production of numerous base learners. In this work, we propose a novel approach for detecting drowsiness in drivers by ensembling multiple machine learning algorithms. We explore the effectiveness of various machine learning algorithms and their ensembles in detecting drowsiness using a Voting Classifier in drivers using eye-tracking data from a video dataset. Furthermore, we have employed two deep learning algorithms; MLP and CNN. The algorithms’ results are then compared to find the model with the best performance and accuracy. The dataset we have used here is taken from the University of Texas, Arlington. The research aims at finding out the accuracy of the machine learning algorithms mentioned above and suggesting the best-suited algorithms amongst them. It also aims to use the ensemble method to get the best results. We have calculated other parameters such as sensitivity, f1 score, precision, recall, and roc curve. The algorithm’s input is given using a webcam, and the model then detects whether the person sitting in front of the camera is drowsy or alert in real time. The proposed model highlights the power of ML and DL methods to tackle practical issues in detecting drowsiness in drivers. It demonstrates the potential of machine intelligence techniques in addressing real-world problems and improving human life quality.
